NIP-51 Lists (#183)
nostr-protocol/nips: 51a.md

NIP-51a
======

User Public Key List
-------------------------

`draft` `optional` `author:fiatjaf` `author:arcbtc` `author:monlovesmango` `author:eskema` 

An event with kind `30000` is defined as a list event (see [NIP-51 - Lists](51.md)) for user public keys. The list of tags should follow the format of kind 3 events as defined in [NIP-02 - Contact List and Petnames](02.md).

Commonly established list parameter names for this kind are:

> - `mute` - a list of tags that the user wants to mute
> - `follow` - a list of tags that the user wants to follow
> - `pin` - a list of tags that the user wants to pin (for display on profile)
> - `bookmark` - a list of tags that the user wants to bookmark

Reviewer: I'm confused. 51a is about "Public Keys" yet here you talk about tags? Isn't "tags" what we use for public list while for private list we use "content"?

```suggestion
- `mute` - a list of public keys that the user wants to mute
- `follow` - a list of public keys that the user wants to follow
- `pin` - a list of public keys that the user wants to pin (for display on profile)
- `bookmark` - a list of public keys that the user wants to bookmark
```

And what are bookmarked or pinned public keys for?

Author: all lists are comprised of tags. for 51a the list of tags should follow the format of kind 3 events as defined in [NIP-02 - Contact List and Petnames](https://github.com/monlovesmango/nips/blob/lists/02.md)

'pin' could be used to indicate "these are users I think are worth checking out"
'bookmark' could be used to save profiles you want to check out later

> Outside of the commonly established list parameter names above, users are allowed to create lists with custom names.

Reviewer: This sentence is not needed. Of course they are allowed and they will do so at which point this nip will get amended to help interoperability.

```suggestion
```

Author: I think it is good to let people know it is ok to use names outside of those defined standardly. whats the harm?
